In this lecture, we'll be taking a look at the game mode, class type.
We'll be implementing the basic structure of a game mode to get a better understanding of how and when
they're generally used in the unreal engine to get started.
We're going to want to go over to our C++ voter and create a new game mode class.
So I'll just right click and select create C++ class.
We can scroll down through the class options and find here our game mode base, which is what we want
to create.
So the description here is pretty good overall on the overview of what the class will be used for.
It dictates the rules of game play, such as the play you control, the controller owning the player,
the current state of the game and more.
And these are all actually things that are already defined in the game mode class, as we'll see a little
bit later.
This next bit about scoring is a little bit less correct and possibly a bit misleading and more of a
suggestion than a requirement.
You definitely can.
And we will be keeping track of school like values in the game.
Right.
However, unlike the previous examples I've just provided, there's nothing already predefined or required
to implement the game score in a game mode class.
So I just wanted to make some distinctions there because we will be pulling from some preset value.
So some of those which the engine ready provides for us, whereas there's no actual concept of score
in the game class hierarchy.
So let's get to creating the class so that we can see what all of this means in a development scenario.
So make sure that you have the game mode base selected and click next.
I renamed this Class two tank game mode base and again drop this into its own folder named Game Mates.
Then click, create and wait for it to do its thing.
And when that's done inside of the idee, the game mode is looking pretty much like any other class.
We'll have our header and our code for in the Head of Fire.
We can start by declaring our private, public and protected sections.
Then in the protected section, I'll start by declaring a B can play function as we've done before.
We'll need this to set all of the game mode, relevant information as soon as the game starts, such
as the number of target tarts and in this case and the more complex games, this could extend to things
like initializing a round timer.
The number of lives for each player.
Target scores and things like that.
Then in the public section, I'm going to create a void function named act dite taking in an argument
of actor pointer named dead actor.
This will be the function, the turrets or the player tank will call and the game mode will then later
decide what to do, depending on whether this was a player dying or a turret pawn.
Next, then we need two more functions.
One named game start and one that name to game over.
The game over function will have a boolean argument named Player one, which will check if we've hit
a win or a loose state of move back and place these in the protected section, as these won't need to
be called from outside.
But if you wanted to expand the project, you may want a child game mode class that could potentially
utilize them as well.
And then both of these functions will have a U.
Function property of blueprints implementable event.
And this will allow us to handle the function implementation in the derived blueprint class.
As certain things like setting timers and creating widgets, which is what these will be responsible
for, is just much more time efficient and approachable in the blueprint drive classes.
Then back in the private section will create two more void functions, this time named Handal Games
DOT and handle Gameover Handle.
Game Over will once again take in a boolean argument named Play a One.
And these will be our functions to handle these C++ side of the game flow.
So we don't need any of these specifiers here.
And these will be calling our blueprint game starts and game over functions.
So the logic will be handled in C++ to track the number of remaining turrets or the player being destroyed,
and then the relevant function will be called in the blueprint derived classes to handle displaying
those results.
Next, then we just want to implement all of our new functions.
This is a very familiar process by nice.
So just a quick challenge for you.
Go ahead and implement all of the required functions in the code file.
Remember that some of the declared functions are meant to be implemented only in blueprints.
So these won't need to get a C plus plus implementation.
So go ahead and post video now and give that one to go.
Okay, so the functions required for implementation are all of those that we have not specified to be
a blueprint implementable event using the you function specify.
So that was the main concept of that challenge here when we're using the specify.
We do not include a C++ implementation.
So have that in mind.
Or just use the multi-line select option combined with the C++ help a shortcut again to implement all
of the required functions.
I'm just going to tidy up the formatting a little bit here.
I'll paste the begin play at the top of the code file as this is where we usually find this located.
I'll also paste the actor died function just above the handle functions so that we can leave those two
together.
Then we're just going to get a quick idea of the Gamefly whilst in the class by commenting out all of
the process a little bit like we've done before.
And then we'll be returning to this later to fill in these functions.
So the Begin play is quite simple.
We're just going to be getting and storing the variables and the game conditions, then calling the
handler game start function to initialize the start of the game.
Then in our act died function, we're going to be expecting to handle the logic to check what type of
actor has just been killed and then respond accordingly.
The handle start function, we can pretty much say has been outlined from the beginning play comment
as well.
Doing pretty much same thing here.
And then finally, the handle game over function will manage what results to show depending on whether
the player won or lost the right.
Also important here is that the handle game functions will be responsible for calling the blueprint
implement Bullivant versions.
So quickly comment that and to just remind us.
Okay.
So we have our class under kind of high level overview of what it will be doing.
Let's get the editor restarted and we'll go back in there and see what this class is really kind of
providing us without any of the custom functionality yet implemented.
So in the editor, I'll just compile this.
Make sure that we have no typos.
And with that done, we get to test out the new class.
So what we're gonna want, first of all, is a blueprint version to use in our project settings.
I'll start by creating a new folder in the blueprint structure named Game Moat's.
We can go over to our game mode class.
Right.
Click on this and select create blueprint and place that in the new game.
MIT's Blueprint Voter.
Name this one, the BP underscore game mode bass.
Inside of the new blueprint, we just want to focus on the details panel at the moment.
And we can see that all of the things that I've mentioned earlier and a few more that the game mode
is responsible for controlling so we can start by providing a default pool and we already have that
available as that will be our tank class, the blueprint version of the tank class specifically.
If you then compile and save this, we can make our way over to the project settings and then in the
maps and mode stop.
The way that the unreal engine works is that every game will need a game mode class to control what
is spawned when the level is initialized.
So this will kind of currently happening in the background.
And if you don't provide one like we haven't in the past, then a default game mode is going to be used
with some prefilled default classes.
And these are all of the great options that we can see here.
Things like the basic player controller and the default pawn, which is that grace fear that you may
be familiar with piloting if you've ever just kind of loaded a game up and just press play.
So what we want to do here is give our project our custom at game mode so that it will know that we
want to specifically spawn in the tank class.
And that will be the default play.
A controlled pawn will also be coming back and adding motors later when we have our player controller
class ready.
But what this will now allow us to do is return to our level and remove the hard reference to the controllable
pawn.
So remember that we've been manually setting this to auto possess players zero.
And that's kind of an override of the default pawn floating sphere that we would have had otherwise
as we hadn't overridden anything in a game mode.
So this isn't an ideal setup.
So we're going to remove this pawn and ensure that we have a player start in the level.
If you don't already have them, for whatever reason, you would have had one by default if you've gotten
rid of that at some point.
So you can find a new place like class over in the place, act a panel to the left and just drag one
back in to the level to avoid any ambiguity.
You usually only want to have a single player slot in the level.
Otherwise, the game mode can get a little bit confused and randomly pick between them unless you're
using them for a multiplayer setup, in which case you'd set which play index will spawn for which player?
A controller inside of the player starts settings for our use case.
So we only want to have the single player start and we can actually leave the auto receive input to
disabled, which is a little bit confusing.
But as the game mode is specifically looking for this class type and we only have one player to spawn,
it will ignore the disabled check and it will use this as our new spawn location for the tank class.
So let's press play and we'll give that a go.
And there we go.
We can see that we're automatically spawning in a new tank and we'll gain control of this, allowing
the system to kind of automate some of that process so that we don't have to manually place the tank
class and override this in our level.